**AuditTracker: Streamlining Audit Processes with Automation** ===================================================== AuditTracker is a comprehensive Python-based solution designed to simplify and automate audit processes, enabling organizations to maintain compliance and reduce risk. This robust tool provides a centralized platform for tracking, managing, and analyzing audit data, ensuring transparency, efficiency, and accuracy. AuditTracker addresses the complexities of traditional audit methodologies by introducing a structured approach to data collection, analysis, and reporting. By automating repetitive tasks and providing real-time insights, AuditTracker empowers auditors to focus on high-value activities, such as risk assessment and control evaluation. The platform's modular design enables seamless integration with existing systems, ensuring minimal disruption to business operations. Key benefits of AuditTracker include: * Enhanced audit efficiency and effectiveness * Improved risk management and compliance * Real-time visibility into audit processes and outcomes * Scalability and flexibility to accommodate diverse audit requirements * Enhanced collaboration and communication among audit teams **Key Features** --------------- * **Automated Data Collection**: AuditTracker's advanced data ingestion engine extracts relevant data from various sources, including databases, files, and APIs. * **Advanced Analytics**: The platform's built-in analytics module applies machine learning algorithms to identify trends, anomalies, and correlations in audit data. * **Customizable Workflows**: Users can create and manage tailored workflows to accommodate unique audit requirements and regulatory frameworks. * **Real-time Reporting**: AuditTracker generates comprehensive, interactive reports that provide actionable insights into audit outcomes and risk exposure. * **Integration with External Systems**: The platform supports seamless integration with popular GRC systems, such as RSA Archer and MetricStream. * **Role-Based Access Control**: AuditTracker's RBAC system ensures that users have appropriate access to features and data based on their roles and responsibilities. **Technology Stack** ------------------- * **Backend**: Python 3.9, Flask 2.0.1, SQLAlchemy 1.4.25 * **Frontend**: React 17.0.2, Material-UI 4.11.3 * **Database**: PostgreSQL 13.4 * **Message Queue**: Celery 5.2.3, RabbitMQ 3.8.16 * **Cloud Platform**: Amazon Web Services (AWS) **Installation** -------------- 1. Clone the AuditTracker repository: `git clone https://github.com/ewhu/AuditTracker.git` 2. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt` 3. Create a PostgreSQL database and update the `config.py` file with the database credentials. 4. Run the following commands to create the database schema and populate the database with sample data: `python manage.py db_create` and `python manage.py db_seed` 5. Start the Flask development server: `python manage.py run` **Configuration** --------------- * **Environment Variables**: + `AUDIT_TRACKER_DB_URI`: PostgreSQL database connection string + `AUDIT_TRACKER_CELERY_BROKER_URL`: Celery message broker URL * **Settings**: + `config.py`: Update this file to configure the application, including database connections, API keys, and workflow settings. **Usage** ----- * **API Endpoints**: + `GET /api/audits`: Retrieve a list of all audits + `POST /api/audits`: Create a new audit + `GET /api/audits/{audit_id}`: Retrieve a specific audit + `PUT /api/audits/{audit_id}`: Update an existing audit * **Example Usage**: + `curl -X GET 'http://localhost:5000/api/audits' -H 'Content-Type: application/json'` + `curl -X POST 'http://localhost:5000/api/audits' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{name: Sample Audit, description: This is a sample audit}'` **Contributing** ------------- Contributions to AuditTracker are welcome! To contribute, please follow these steps: 1. Fork the AuditTracker repository. 2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix. 3. Implement your changes and ensure they pass the existing test suite. 4. Submit a pull request to the main repository. **License** ------- This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/ewhu/AuditTracker/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details. **Acknowledgements** ----------------- We would like to acknowledge the contributions of the open-source community, without which this project would not be possible. Special thanks to the maintainers of the Flask, React, and Material-UI projects.